Hello everyone and welcome to the nearest neighbors with our lecture.
This lecture we're going to learn how to implement the nearest neighbors classification algorithm in
our let's go ahead and get started.
All right.
So I went ahead and jumped to our studio to get started.
The first step we're need to do is get the data and the data were going to be playing around with a
caravan dataset that comes with the SLR package.
Now in order to actually get this data you'll need to install the package.
So go in and say installed up packages in as a character string type in I s l r.
I just put it here as a comment because I actually already have the Eissler package.
Once you've download it you should be able to call all our library.
And once you've called the library you'll have access to the care of an dataset Let's go ahead and check
out the structure of this current data set.
This current data set is about 6000 observations on 6000 customers and they have 86 features or variables
in this data frame.
And if you scroll all the way down which you'll notice is that there's a final purchase variable with
factors of two levels.
Yes or no.
Basically this is just a bunch of customer data measured across eighty five predictors of the demographic
characteristics with the final one being whether or not they purchased insurance from this care event
company.
And that's why it's called the care of data set.
The insurance policy company is called Caravan and this is a bunch of data off customers indicating
whether or not they actually purchased the insurance policy in this dataset.
Only about 6 percent of people purchased the insurance policy and you can check that just by asking
for the summary of the purchase columns.
I can say summary care of an dollar sign and purchase is the target that we're going to try to predict
later on when we split this.
You can see here it's about 5400 nos and only about 350 people actually purchased the insurance.
Let's go ahead and move along.
Let's see if we actually need to clean the data so we're just using this data as a simple example.
We won't worry too much about feature engineering.
Let's just go ahead and remove any A values by dropping the rows with them in order to check if there's
any any values.
I'm just going to say any is that a pass on the entire data frame.
And you'll notice we get false so it looks like we're good.
Let's go ahead and move on to a very important topic when dealing with KNM or cannoneers neighbors and
that's to standardize the variables because the K and classifier predicts the class of a given test
observation by 10 to find the observations that are nearest to it.
The scale of the variables really matters.
Any variables that are on a large scale will have a much larger effect on the distance between observations
versus variables that are on a small scale.
For example let's go ahead and check the variance of two features will check the variance of the first
feature.
So caravan the very first column going to say comma 1 the variance of the first column is 165 and the
variance of the second column
is 0.1 6 so clearly or scales are really different for each of the variables.
Well we're going to do now is standardize all the variables except for the purchase one because the
purchase an actual label that we're trying to predict the purchase variable is column 86 or the last
column of our data set.
So we're going to need to do is save it as a separate variable because the K and then a function will
need it as a separate argument.
Let me go ahead and start by doing this will say purchase and I'm writing this now.
A script is going to be caravan and it's going to be the very last column.
And there's different ways to index the actual purchase column.
You could have also just index that by name.
But here I know it's the last column and then what I'm going to do is standardize the dataset using
the scale function of r and that's actually really easy.
That's something that's really nice about our.
I'm going to call this standardized dot caravan and you can just go ahead and use the scale function
and scale is just a generic function whose default method centers are scales the columns of a numeric
matrix.
And in this case we're going to do it on care of.
And I want to do it on everything but the eighty sixth column.
So I'm going to go ahead and say minus 86 here
and then I'm going to go ahead and print the variants
of the first and second column just to make sure everything worked.
Let me go ahead and copy this line
an input to hear let's go ahead and run this and noticed we get one and one.
So now that we can see that we've actually standardized all the columns which is good because of K nearest
neighbors.
It would have been an issue if we're dealing with stuff on really different scales.
Let's go ahead and continue by doing the train test split on our data.
I'm not going to use a tool here.
I'm just going to do a very simple split and just grab the first 1000 rows as a test set.
Let me go ahead and show you how we can do that.
I'm just going to say test index is 1 through 1000.
So a vector of the integers 1 through 1000 that is going to go out and say test data grab it from the
standardized caravan and pass in my test index.
And this is just another example of how you can do a train test split.
However I would always recommend using the CAA tools random method.
But for right now this is a pretty simple example because just Kinnear's neighbors by default is a pretty
basic algorithm.
We can just go ahead and do this.
OK.
So that's my test data and I'm going to do the same for my training data.
And I say train that data
standardized caravan and say negative test index and that means the Spraberry thing that's not in that
test index.
And then I'm going to say train that purchase is going to be equal to purchase of negative test the
index.
OK.
So we have our training data and our testing data.
Now it's time to use K and N or the K nearest neighbors algorithm and as a reminder we're trying to
come up for model to predict whether someone will purchase the insurance policy you're not going to
go ahead and make a little cut in my script and start the section of billing the canon and model.
Let me go ahead and continue down.
First off we're going to need to do is call the class library and the class library is library that
contains the KNM function.
I'm going to go ahead and set the seed to 101 because there may be some random variants while using
the canon function that way I'll just set the seed to make sure you get the same results I do
and I'm going to create a variable called predicted purchase and then I'll call Canon.
So that's the nearest neighbor classification the nearest neighbor function works a little differently
than what we've seen before which you have to do is you passing in your training data then you pass
in your test data and then you pass in your training labels.
So notice the order here we have our training data or test data and then the labels are the purchase
yes or no for the training data.
Now then what this will attempt to do is predict the purchase for the test data and it's a little different
than what we've seen before as far as putting in a formula and then we'll go ahead and say is equal
to 1 for now.
And let me go ahead and show you what this outputs by printing the head of the predicted purchase.
Let me run this.
Whoops
OK if we take a look we'll get.
No no no no no.
But we have levels.
No and yes.
Looking good.
Let's go ahead and delete these print statements.
We've gotten the data we've done the train test split and we did the KNM model.
Again something to note here how you actually use the k and end function you pass in your training data
without a label.
You pass your test data again without a label.
Then you actually pass in your training data label points and then you pass the cave all you want to
use and you'll get the actual predicted labels on your test data.
Let's go ahead and evaluate the model with our misclassification error rate nor to do that.
I can just say this I can say miss class error
is and that's going to be the average of where my test purchase member that was the actual label points
on whether or not they purchased the insurance policy for my test data whether or not this is not equal
to well say predicted purchase.
And let's go ahead and print the missed class error.
Ok looks like a misclassified about eleven point six percent of my test data points that's not so great
but again it really depends on what your data looks like what your features look like cetera.
Right now the focus of this lecture is just to get you feeling comfortable using the K and and function
.
Let's go ahead and start the next step.
That's always really important when you are using Kinnear's neighbors and that's choosing a k value
.
And we're going to do is actually implements the elbow method we discussed during the lecture and I'll
show you our intuition behind the process we're going to do.
Let's go ahead and just quickly change this to say K equals 3.
And again let's go ahead and print out the missed class error member or previous miss Clouser was about
eleven point six percent.
If I run it now I get 7.4 percent when I say Keiko's with the three That's looking pretty good.
Let's go hands up at teacake was 5.
It looks like it's going further down 6.6 percent.
The question is how do we actually know when to stop as far as increase in this k value.
What I could do is just manually change K and see which k gives us the minimal classification misclassification
rate.
But since we have a computer we're just going to do a for loop for this process.
And let me go ahead and start that off.
I'm going to say predictive purchase is null and then I'm going to go ahead and say error rates is also
a no.
And the reason I'm sending them as no instead of any values is because predictive purchase is eventually
going to be the vector of predicted purchases and the error rate is going to be a vector of all the
error rates.
And I'll show you what I mean.
Just a second.
We'll go ahead and go for I from 1 to 20.
I'm going to set seed 101 just to make sure any random variations are the same for you and me and then
I'm going to say predict that purchase
is canon pass in my train data person my test data and then passing the labels for the training data
.
So train that purchase and then I say k is equal to I.
And then once that's all calculated out going to say the error rates of I is the mean of test up purchase
not equal to predicted that purchase and then we're going to go ahead and do is print out the error
rate.
Let's go ahead and run this.
Note that this may take a while.
So just keep that in mind.
I'm going to go ahead and jump to this completion.
All right.
That took just about 10 more seconds to complete but looks like now we have all the misclassification
or error rates for various values of k from 1 to 20.
Let's go ahead and use G-G plot to actually plot out the elbow here.
So going we start a new section called
visualize K elbow method
and you all these notes are in the notebook as far as all the code and we'll review it right for we
and the lecture.
But I'm going to call library G-G plot 2 set K values equal 1 through 20 and I'm going to create a data
frame of my errors with K as one column and then the error rate that goes if that K is another column
.
So I going to go ahead and say data frame pasan my error rates and then pass in the case value vector
And just to show you what this looks like.
Let me go ahead and put all this in the consul and to clear this.
Put it in the console.
That way we don't run that huge for loop again.
And if I print out what the area looks like you'll notice I have this I have the error rates and the
K value associated with it.
Now let's go ahead and just plot this out.
Easy and easy plot.
That means I'm going to say G-G plot.
In my data area that the if the aesthetic I want to do.
I want to plot the K values on the x axis versus the error rates on the y axis and then I want to do
a scatterplot and I'm going to go ahead and add a connecting line with Chiam underscore line.
And I want to go ahead and say the line is a dotted line and it's going to be red.
You don't have to actually add all this in.
This is just optional stuff to make the plot look a little better or a little nicer.
Let's go ahead and make sure this all works.
And let's zoom in on this plot.
And there we have it.
Now you can see that increasing k will drop your error rates or your misclassification rate.
But once you get to about 9 as your K value it doesn't help your misclassification rate to increase
the K value.
In fact you can see it basically flatlines after 9.
And that's where our elbow is.
So if you were doing this in real life after plotting this data out you would choose k equals 9 as your
optimal k value.
Given what you've done for the training set.
All right that's it for the nearest neighbors lecture.
Again that should have been pretty straightforward because conures neighbors is a really simple algorithm
.
Let's go ahead and just take these final few minutes to go over everything we did.
First thing we have to do is get the data.
That means you had to install the SLR package and call the Eissler library.
Then we could check out the care event package.
We didn't do any exploratory data analysis or visualization off the caravan package itself because we're
just focusing on learning how to use the Kinnear's neighbor implementation and our we went ahead and
got the data we got the purchase Colomb out of the data and then we standardized or scaled the rest
of the data as it was normalized which is really important when you're working Kinnear's neighbors.
Then we did a very simple train test split.
We didn't do a random s.a.a tools train to split.
We just went ahead and grabbed the first 1000 data points as our test Index said that toward test data
and then we grabbed the test purchase this test labels.
We did the same thing for the training data.
Then to use the k and model we did the following is probably the most important part of this lecture
you call library class then you call that an end function and you pass in your trained data.
Your test data and then you're trained up purchase and then you pass in your K value.
In this case you just Pessin like I mentioned the training data and the test data and then you pass in
the labels for your training data in order to get out the labels for your test data.
And this makes sense because if you remember back from the K N and lecture the training of the data
as or the training of the cane and model is just giving it and sorting that data.
That's why it doesn't have the same sort of formula that the other models we've been working with have
.
Then we went ahead and grabbed the misclassification error.
You could also use table to start making it confusion matrix off of this thing.
And then we went ahead and used a for loop to try to choose the best value.
And then we visualized it using the elbow method.
That's really all there is to it as far as using the K and an algorithm in our.
This is a really simple algorithm but it's a pretty powerful tool given how simple and intuitive it
is to actually perform classifications on a data set.
All right I hope those are useful.
Remember to reference notes in case anything was confusing and I will see you at the next lecture.
Thanks everyone.